Add Serverless docs (#834)
apollographql/docs: src/content/graphos/cloud-routing/serverless/aws-migration.mdx

---
title: Migrate Serverless routers to AWS
subtitle: Learn how to migrate Serverless cloud routers from Fly.io to AWS
description: Migrate your Apollo GraphOS Serverless cloud router to AWS for improved reliability and performance. Learn about changes, migration steps, and who needs to migrate.
---

<Note>

This page only applies to Serverless cloud routers created before May 21, 2024. Serverless cloud routers created on or after this date automatically run on AWS.

</Note>

Serverless is switching cloud providers from Fly.io to AWS to improve reliability and performance.
Serverless cloud routers created before May 21, 2024, run on Fly.io infrastructure, and you must migrate them in GraphOS Studio.
Cloud routers on Fly.io will continue to operate until July 2, 2024. After this date, any cloud routers on Fly.io will be permanently deleted.

## What's changing?

> Running Serverless cloud routers on AWS offers improves reliability. On AWS, Serverless cloud routers can support larger schemas and offer a consistent ten requests per second (RPS) of throughput.

Reviewer: https://github.com/apollographql/docs/pull/834/commits/a0ba6434a7472b8bdb2b08ed5c4a20483e16ec97

> Running on AWS also increases performance. On Fly.io, cloud routers were hosted in Chicago. On AWS, they will be hosted in us-east-1. This means faster performance, particularly for customers running subgraph servers on AWS, especially if they are in or near us-east-1.
> 
> With improved reliability and performance, Serverless can offer additional GraphOS router features. Refer to the [pricing page](https://www.apollographql.com/pricing#graphos-router) for the full list of supported features.
> 
> If you need more than 10 RPS throughput or hosting in a different AWS region, consider upgrading to Dedicated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Region
On Fly.io, cloud routers were hosted in Chicago. On AWS, your cloud routers will be hosted on `us-east-1` by default, and if you upgrade to the Dedicated plan you can customize your region.
```

Reviewer: https://github.com/apollographql/docs/pull/834/commits/a0ba6434a7472b8bdb2b08ed5c4a20483e16ec97

### Inactivity period changes

On Fly.io, Serverless cloud routers sleep after two minutes of inactivity. Sleeping routers can't serve requests and must wake up to do so. On AWS, cloud routers sleep after seven days of inactivity.

After an additional 30 days of inactivity, Apollo deletes Serverless cloud routers.
Deletion preserves a cloud router's associated variant's schema but deletes the underlying cloud router. Learn more in [Serverless router status](./#serverless-router-status).

|                                        | Fly.io Hosted | AWS Hosted |
| -------------------------------------- | ------------- | ---------- |
| Inactivity period <br/>before sleep    | 2 minutes     | 7 days     |
| Inactivity period <br/>before deletion | 60 days       | 37 days    |

> ## Who needs to migrate?

Reviewer: https://github.com/apollographql/docs/pull/834/commits/c2cb7a821e61b6046c09a921757ea68d84272565

> Only GraphOS Serverless plan customers using Fly.io hosted cloud router need to migrate. You can check if your cloud router runs on Fly.io by checking its region on the **Overview** page in GraphOS Studio. If the region is **ord - Chicago**, you need to migrate.

Reviewer: https://github.com/apollographql/docs/pull/834/commits/c2cb7a821e61b6046c09a921757ea68d84272565

(And based on mock-ups I've seen, I believe there will be a banner, so no worries about that.)

> Only GraphOS Serverless plan customers using Fly.io hosted cloud router need to migrate. You can check if your cloud router runs on Fly.io by checking its region on the **Overview** page in GraphOS Studio. If the region is **ord - Chicago**, you need to migrate.

Reviewer: Just a heads-up @daniman : @jackonawalk let me know it's actually not that simple -->  Between May 1 and May 21 a certain percent of cloud routers will provision on AWS.

---
title: Migrate Serverless routers to AWS
subtitle: Learn how to migrate from Fly.io to AWS cloud routing
description: Learn how to migrate from Fly.io to AWS cloud routing
---

<Note>

This page only applies to Serverless cloud routers created before May 21, 2024. Serverless cloud routers created on or after this date automatically run on AWS.

</Note>

Cloud Serverless is transitioning cloud providers from Fly.io to AWS to improve reliability and performance.
Serverless cloud routers created before May 21, 2024, run on Fly.io infrastructure, and you must migrate them in GraphOS Studio.

Cloud routers on Fly.io will continue to operate until July 2, 2024. After this date, any cloud routers on Fly.io will be permanently deleted.

## What's changing?

> Running Serverless cloud routers on AWS offers improved reliability. On Fly.io, cloud routers supported up to 100 transactions per second (TPS) but the actual throughput was typically less. On AWS, Serverless cloud routers support larger schemas and offer a consistent ten requests per second (RPS) of throughput and up to 10 million requests per month for free.

Reviewer: @jackonawalk , how can we explain the different/transition from 100 TPS -> 10 RPS to users?

### Step 2. Add subgraphs

If you have multiple subgraphs, [add each subgraph](/graphos/quickstart/next-steps/#add-another-subgraph) to your new variant.

### Step 3. Setup router configuration

Copy and paste your old router's configuration into your new one. You can access a Serverless cloud router configuration from **Settings > Cloud Router > Router configuration YAML** in GraphOS Studio.

<img
  className="screenshot"
  alt="Configuring the routing for your cloud supergraph in GraphOS Studio"
  src="../../img/cloud-routing/configuration-main.jpg"
  width="700"
/>

Router configuration defines important values like CORS policies and header propagation.

<Note>

If you have [secrets](../configuration/#managing-secrets) in your old cloud router configuration, you must also set them in your new configuration. Secrets can't be read once saved.

</Note>

### Step 4. Test

Once you've added all your subgraphs and set up your cloud router configuration, try running a few sample operations from [Explorer](../../explorer/).
You may need to enable [subgraph errors](/graphos/cloud-routing/configuration#subgraph-error-inclusion) to troubleshoot if your operations don't execute.

> In certain circumstances, Serverless on AWS offers less throughput than Fly.io, so you should simulate production traffic before going live. If you exceed throughput limits, your clients will receive 429 errors.

Reviewer: @jackonawalk , can we say what these circumstances are?
